places around Italy looking.
And that's where we ended up in the present place.
We are in Castiglione da Florentina.
And the town desperately wanted to be affiliated with the university.
And so they made a really good deal.
And so Sally said, sign it up.
So the next year we did a floating studio between Assisi and some other places.
And then the following year it was ready to live in.
And then since that time, the bishops come back.
and begged for A&M to come back because the place is falling apart again.
It's out in the middle of nowhere.
They can't rent it to anyone.
They essentially cut their own throats.
And so we all just went, yeah.
But the College of Architecture, I think, has more students going study abroad percentage-wise than any place on campus.
And I think we're the number one university in the US for sending students abroad in the College of Architecture because we have programs in Guatemala,
in France, in Australia, Mexico, Barcelona, Greece, Turkey, the whole bit.
So it's grown, and it's all Dan McGilvery, you know, started the whole thing.
But, you know, that's really good.
And Vivian Paul has a really good, you know, history of the whole thing.
Let's see if I went through that.
Oh, Ran Watson would be a good one to get hold of.
Who?
Ran Watson.
He came, he's a chemist, he came the same time I did, and he was Associate Dean of Chemistry for a while, but he's been around a long time.
And, let's see, Salwood Central Texas Hardware, we all remember, is the place, let's see.
Oh, and Connie Jo Donaldson, there were lots of stories about him.
He must have taught at A&M for 30 or more years.
What was his specialty?
Freehand drawing.
But when I first came here, I know students, the first year he was here, he has really long legs.
He's like a spider.
And he was sitting on one of those stools, and he's real nervous, and his legs intertwined, and he got caught, you know, and like just fell over.
And the students had to spend about 15 minutes trying to get him untangled.
And then when he was first here, he was walking to the old Heaton Hall, which was the bookstore, and he always had the cigarette dangling.
And he had a big open collar shirt and two core guys, freshmen came as he was holding all these books and went,
Howdy, sir.
You know, and it's startling because he'd never, you know, been on campus before, seen anybody in the Corps, and the sewers were flipping up and down there, you know, and started smoking, and he had to drop all of his books, you know, to undo his shirt, and, of course, they ran.
But, you know, he's a good one.
Did the students have a nickname for him?
Connie Joe.
Connie Crayons is the brand of a crayon and they called him Connie Joe Donaldson.
Is it C-O-N-N-Y?
I think it's C-O-N-E-E, I think.
C-O-N-E-E.
And then let's see, there's Doster Goswick's story.
Sue worked in the health center and he would roller skate around the health center to get from one place to another.
Oh and then when the health center was built they built a spot for the hyperbolic unit and then it turned out they forgot to size it or figure out how they were going to get it in and they had to tear out a wall to move it in.
Oh and Dean Hannigan too was another story.
When they were building Military Walk
My specialty was environmental psychology and how people behave in spaces, and so there was no spot around campus for students to sit anywhere.
Myself, another faculty member and two students went to meet with him because he somehow was in charge of this.
So we tried to explain to him that if we could work these different seating areas out, what he had now won't work because it puts people in a goldfish bowl and they're just going to be vacant, sunken areas.
And he just laughed and he said, Aggies don't want to sit around outside and chat.
You know, and there's no need to have that.
Besides we provide, if they want to sit, they'll sit in these type spots.
Then we try to explain again and he said, nah.
You know, so the next year they were built and they're still vacant.
You know, nobody will sit in them.
But it's just, it's almost like you're a prophet anywhere else but at A&M, you know, if you're on campus.
Oh and then I remember when the battalion used to be delivered in the neighborhoods.
And no longer anymore.
And we had one of our gourmet dinners on the steps of the systems building.
We set up tables and tablecloths and cantalaperas, and we had a dessert gourmet meal.
What was the impression, what impression did you and others have of Jack Williams?
We liked him.
We thought he was very academic, you know, but he was here such a short time.
But I think because of his credentials people liked him.
Five years.
So he was so dear to me.
Oh, yeah.
Well, when he was in the hospital I had a piece of wood that was from the panel up there and I carved a heart out for it, told him it was over Sully's and sent it to he and his wife.
She still has all those things.
Oh, good, good.
I betcha.
You betcha.
Yeah, but he, you know, he seemed to be the only real president that you could call a president, and I'm sure Vandiver was, but, you know, the ag people, they seemed to be sort of a joke.
Well, and see, William's experience
at Clemson, and then at the coordinating board, and then being chief academic officer for the University of Tennessee System, all of that prepared him well.
Oh, yeah.
So, think of this.
a separate land grant school in a southern state that is 100 miles from the state capitol, off the main highway, with a limited curriculum, all male, all white, compulsory military, had a corps, rah-rah school spirit, rah-rah athletics.
The state university is at the state capitol and they tell Clemson jokes at that state university.
And he worked his way up from a beginning faculty level in southern history to be the chief academic officer at Clemson, and he went through all the experiences there that we went through here about three years before we did.
Oh, great.
And that's why he would understand this place well.
Yeah, yeah.
So he dealt with experiment stations and extension services and all that.
And I've learned from these interviews, well, I'll give you this question.
Who recommended him to the board?
I would think it would be Rudder.
It was Rudder in 68.
If something happens to me, he told Ford Allbritton and John Lindsay, if something ever happens to me, you go get him.
And Albritton, then in 1970, when Rudder dies, was a new board member.
And when he said, when I told the board that, they didn't have to hear anything else, if that's what Earl said to him.
What are your most cherished colleagues, the ones that you respect the most?
John Ferry.
Why?
What are the keys to his capability?
He can get blood out of a turnip in a classroom.
He can make students do their very best work.
That's F-E-R-R-Y?
F-A-I-R-E-Y.
I mean, students may scream and moan and yell, but four years later, they're saying in senior design, the best work they've ever done was in his class because he wouldn't take anything less than excellent.
And he could get them to expand beyond their wildest dreams.
He's really good at that.
Plus, he's real broad.
I mean, he's a painter.
He's a gardener, nationally known gardener.
Excuse me.
Oh, you got another one.
Right.
But he brings diversity to the classroom.
He can talk along a whole series of lines that most faculty members can't.
Most of them are single-dimensioned.
And who else?
Jerry Maffey, I respect.
Jerry who?
Maffey, M-A-F-F-E-I.
He came the same time I did from Berkeley.
I didn't know him at Berkeley.
Dick Roman had us over for dinner one night with our wives, thinking it would be on home week, and we met for the first time there.
And he's very methodical, but he also, his wife's a fabulous painter.
She had a show in Chicago about six years ago, and it was a retrospect of the 60s, she and Judy Chicago and some other people, so she's high up there in level.
He's an antique dealer.
He sells off the internet.
He's won national award for some of his designs.
And he also won't take any kind of low-quality work, and he can inspire the students, and he makes them question themselves.
And then Alan Stasel, you know, if there's anybody I modeled myself after, it was probably Alan.
His compassion, you know, for individuals and students, his ability to, you know, see, you know, good or the development, anybody.
He could...
He could start talking to somebody and find out anything about them, what directions they need to go, and the whole bit.
And then he would bend heaven and earth to make that happen for them.
There's very few people that will do that.
And even if it disagreed with what direction he wanted to go, he would try to do what was best for that person.
Him I probably respect more than anybody.
Outside of that, I actually ran around with more people outside the College of Architecture than inside the College of Architecture.
Steve Ryder, for one, Skip Porter, a bunch of those people.
Yeah, Manny Parsons.
See, Steve and I were at Rice at the same time.
Oh, really?
But I was a graduate student.
He was an undergraduate.
Then here, he gets hired at UTEP 20 years ago, same summer I get hired.
He's now the chief academic officer out there.
Our kids knew his kids.
So we've crossed a lot of paths.
And then, let's see, other little funny stories.
We had artists in residence for six years where the dean paid for somebody to come in and they would be there for a year and they would work in a studio and they would teach and they'd give a work of art to the college.
Well, one of them was Dick Ray out of Houston and he made a, I think it was a 50-foot bra that hung across Main Street for the grand opening of the Fine Arts Museum.
So anyhow, he brought it up here and was showing the classes and had the giant six-foot clothespins and all sorts of things.
So anyhow, several of the students thought this would look good on top of the academic building.
So they went running over and somehow got out and wrapped
And there's a picture in one of the battalions, or in the alumna magazine, not alumna, in the Aggieland of the bra around it.
And they were arrested for that.
And then he also helped, this was during the streaking era, remember that?
He led a bunch of the architecture students when they were over in the old hospital, you know, streaking around the campus.
And then Mad Max Griner, he painted the dumpster, he's a really good painter, but he painted this large chicken with core boots on, you know, and a core hat on the dumpster, which was neat, it somehow disappeared.
Let's see.
Oh, before there was theater here, we had a melodrama.
I don't know if you remember that.
It was over at the Huey's house, which was over near Belly Goat Park.
and we invited 500 people, and it was all faculty cast, and we all played different roles, set up the backdrops, the sets, and we had popcorn and beer out, and then produced our own melodrama, and that was probably around 74, somewhere in there.
But that was fun.
And then architects on the faculty couldn't practice.
within the community without them phoning the legislature and da-da-da-da until about the late 70s when there got to be enough business that we really weren't taking business away.
Let's see, are there any, I'm using the phrase broadly now, former students, any former students, non-A&M employees that have been significant in the progress of the College of Architecture?
Are there some people that... Well, Ron Skaggs, which is fairly obvious.
He's president of the American Institute of Architects nationally now, and he's president of HKS in Dallas.
How has he helped the college?
Well, he set up an endowed professorship, several scholarships, things like that for the College of Architecture.
And then he's always been, you know, just a major supporter when we needed things.
He's, you know, there's been several exceptional, you know, students like Robert Riggs who was.
You're saying by his accomplishments he helped.
Yeah, by his accomplishments.
Did the CRS firm, have they been helpful?
Yeah.
They set up the Vis Lab and then set up the CRS Center for Entrepreneurship that Bob Johnson's head of right now.
Am I correct that the CRS firm started
when they were here.
And they used to office over Maidleys?
That's what I thought at Southgate.
Do you know of any instances when some true outsider
former student, legislator, regent, or somebody else, attempted to give direction of what architecture should or should not do?
Yeah.
Dallas.
Not Dallas, Fort Worth.
Pete Peterson?
Hmm?
He, yeah, he was one, but there was another one, seemed like it was, his son was the legislature.
It seemed like his son was named Pete or Bud or something like that, but it seemed like it started with a D. But he was a big—Garrett, Preston Garrett.
He came in, and he didn't like the idea of us branching out of being a boutique school of architecture.
He didn't like the idea of research, you know, and planning should be in some other school.
And he tried to dictate.
Harwood K. Smith tried to dictate that too, which surprised me because Harwood, being an artist, you know, should be broader than that.
But Harwood did set us up with the Guatemala study abroad program.
I have to give him credit for that.
Who else was it?
Oh, D.D.
Matthews here in town.
He didn't like anything that any of us did.
But I think the biggest pain in the ass, well, D.D.
Matthews and the guy from Fort Worth.
What is it that, what are the ingredients in good teaching?
Ah, okay.
You've been highly recognized as a good teacher.
To me it's like, the analogy I might use is if you have two pendulum clocks on a metal piece and you set them going opposite directions, they will eventually oscillate to the same frequency.
Like a really good teacher.
tunes in with an individual student that way and finds out where the student is, not where the student finds out where the prof is.
And then you start opening up doors for them and showing them how they can do things better or how they can become better or how they can grow.
So it's essentially sort of
It's how much growth you can achieve in your student is, I think, a good prof. I don't think there's an ego for the prof involved.
I think the prof has to almost become egoless to make that happen.
What about pride in what that teacher is trying to teach?
Yeah, you have to be enthusiastic.
You have to believe in what you're trying to teach.
Patience?
Oh, definitely patience.
Yeah, because you're going to see some kids, you know, that will try and try and try again.
And, you know, I might have seen them go out of my class, you know, clueless.
And then about a year or two later, all of a sudden they turn around and they come back and say, that's what you were trying to do.
And it dawns on them, but it just takes that long for it to gel, you know, and come to the surface.
And there's a lot of incubation.
that's involved with a lot of students and students that you think you know hate you and then two years later they say you know you turn my life around uh which is kind of fun did you ever think about leaving here
Not really, no.
I kind of got hooked in right off the bat and I guess my house became sort of home room for, you know, the college's kids and it was a half a block from campus and half the time they'd come in, you know, anywhere from 6 to 9 at night and just sit around and chat.
Normally did you walk to the architecture building or did you drive?
I probably drove more than I walked.
So that you never got any formal offer or sought a formal offer?
Nobody ever tried to lure you?
Did anybody ever try to lure you away?
Yeah, Auburn's trying to get me now.
Oh, really?
Oh, Buffalo, New York.
Tried last year.
But anyone that has asked me, Tech has tried three times.
So, but I don't see any reason to leave.
It's a problem.
So your Red Raider blood cells have been turned... Replaced.
They've been replaced with maroon.
Right.
Yeah, I mean, there's...
I don't like to be an administrator that much.
I enjoy the students.
And if I went to be a dean, that would put me out of the classroom, and then I'd just have to meet with a bunch of administrators all day, and that wouldn't be any fun.
Do you feel that the program in here, and I'm using architecture now in general, have there been any important opportunities missed in the last quarter of a century or third of a century?
There were probably some faculty hires had they paid more attention to that this like this last summer when Julius Garbo went to Utah I mean UTSA he was so busy interviewing around there were six faculty positions that they had spent megabucks flying people in and he essentially the faculty thought he was handling getting them in
And he was so busy making arrangements, selling his house, he didn't phone any of them.
And so by the time they figured out that he hadn't done anything and they phoned him, they'd taken jobs elsewhere.
But I would say... Have you missed any opportunities in the program's development?
It could have, the computer stuff could have developed earlier if it hadn't been for Reed and Hicks.
It could have happened.
McCarthy made it happen, but we're still number one in the world in that area.
But it could have happened a lot earlier.
Are there some, are there some innovations that we ought to be doing more of now?
Yeah, we should be getting into the design bill, more like your son is in.
And more management style stuff.
A lot of the old architects on the faculty, not old, I mean, these are young people.
You mean old style?
Old style.
They're still looking at the boutique school.
and saying we want to be like Harvard, we want to be like this and the other.
And the whole industry is going toward land development and design-build.
And architects need to be managers, not hired, you know, decorators, you know, for the design-build firms.
And if we don't hop on that boat,
We're going to get left out in the coal and we need to be the leaders in it, training them both in both areas and not just hiding our head in the sand just because it's unpopular, design was, to do so.
Let's make believe that you were hired as a consultant now to the leadership in the College of Architecture.
What advice would you give them for now and the future?
Well, I would hop on the design bill for sure and on a management option.
They've gotten a little tight over the last two years since Walter left.
Once Walter left, who kept everything open and multi-directional, some of the old-style thinking architects.
have ventured a little bit back to more, you know, this is architecture, you know, this is the way it should be.
And they have their head in the sand, I think, a little bit too much in that direction.
It's still broader than 98% of all the schools of architecture in the country, you know, and I don't think it'll ever swing the pendulum to the right on that again.
I would go in with the Visual Studies Undergraduate curriculum where we have the first electronic arts program in the U.S.
and we already have a world-renowned graduate program in it and the only problem with doing that is that
A third of all the students coming here in environmental design want to go that route.
And since we have a cap and we're only taking the top students, well, the people that want to go this are the people that also have to pass engineering calculus and all that.
So there's going to be a greater percentage of them admitted into the program than there is architecture or anything.
I don't mention that to them because I know that's going to happen, but if any of the architects and construction science people ever realized that, they would probably try to put a stop to the visual stage program because it would become the largest department.
And plus it sure would help A&Ms, you know, image around the country to have an earth, I mean, a world-renowned, you know, pace-setting, you know, undergraduate electronic arts program.
In terms of dimensions of number of students and so forth, what advice would you give?
How large should the program, should architecture in general be?
Right now, they're at a pretty good size that they can handle.
If they put in the visual studies program, they need to get bigger.
They need more space.
Within that framework they have, it would be almost impossible to have a visual stage program.
They need some place like Scotes Hall or some similar sized building that they could branch into, that they could create studio space and stuff like that.
All right, now I've just about run out of questions I can think of.
Can you think of any other?
I've gone through pretty much everything.
All right.
Okay, then I've got two questions left.
Let's make believe that somebody walks up to you and gives you a check for a million dollars with one condition.
You must pass it on to Texas A&M, but you can decide what.
If you could make a huge gift to A&M, for what purpose would you want that gift used?
the development of the visual studies curriculum.
The second one would be, if I had an alternative, was the Center for, I'm not sure what they're going to call it, creative leadership through educational psychology.
They're working with the vice president of Conoco right now, and he's not married, and he and his wife, he was responsible for all the creative ventures of Conoco in the last 20 years, and
He has already approached, and we've already had a couple, three lunches with him, and he's going to donate money to set up a center for creative leadership or creativity at A&M campus, and it'll be handled through educational psychology, and they'll do sort of a cross-campus interdisciplinary curriculum, and then my freshman class will be one of the
courses in it, but to me that would be a neat second thing if it had to be something out of the College of Architecture.
All right, then the last question.
What feelings do you have in your heart for Texas A&M today?
Well, I've turned down all the offers to go elsewhere.
You know, to me, it's home.
I can't think of going anywhere else.
I've been able to accomplish everything I want to here.
And there doesn't seem to be any end in sight.
So, you know, I think if I come up with some new ideas or directions, so far I've been supported all the way.
So...
And I like the students here.
They have a different kind of attitude, a can-do attitude that very few other colleges around.
When I was at Berkeley, most of the students out there thought they were owed an education and that if they went to class, they were doing the prof a favor.
And here, it's the opposite.
You know, it's like, you know, what can I learn?
How much can I learn?
It's just a different mindset.
Splendid.